spread out throughout our time together
has been little things that help you get
a job
so what I have done is combined all of
those Snippets into one class so I don't
care if you are on class one ketchup
crew I don't care if you're deep in the
hunt or if you're already on the job
this class is for you
now we're going to cover a lot of stuff
we're going to cover everything from
your online presence to how to interview
all the way through data structures and
algorithms just to get that refresher
and we didn't get a lot of space
repetition in yet right and so we're
gonna pull it all together in one class
and my goal is that as you are going
throughout the hunt this is the class
you come back to
when you need to remember you're a
wonderful time in the hollowed Halls of
100 devs this is the class you come back
to when somebody says Hey Leon or hey
your name I've been trying to get a job
for a long time I haven't been able to
do it this is the class you show them
all right so that's the goal uh we're
gonna walk through kind of all these
little bits Bob's doohickeys bring it
all together
and then you are ready to go along the
hunt now this isn't this isn't the end
folks this isn't the end uh as you know
tomorrow we have our tea spill six
o'clock on Discord these t-spills have
been wild folks absolutely wild the
information gets shared in these real
boots on the ground experience of what
it's like to get a job coming out of the
hundred devs experience
what it's like to get a job right now
right then all day next week not just
Tuesday when we have class but Monday
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday you
have stand up
right come on over to stand up we got
500 plus people sometimes peaking over
600 people walking through a coding
challenge each day
learning progressively harder and harder
methods than harder and harder data
structures and algorithms
answering real questions of what folks
are running to and running into on the
hunt
so this isn't it this isn't the end this
is a beautiful new beginning
all right so let's get into it I want to
go back
I want to start at the beginning I want
to bring in all the things that I think
are going to make you successful on the
hunt if you're new around here you got
referred from a friend what an amazing
friend they are I'm Leon we're running a
free software engineering boot camp for
folks that are trying to go from zero to
employed right and we've been doing this
for months so we are condensing all of
that knowledge into one class but there
are definitely
areas where we go into more detail and
previous classes on YouTube where you
can go back and watch those classes so
if you feel like we go a little too fast
through something that you really want
to dive into a little bit more you can
definitely check out those previous
videos on YouTube and I really think
it's important no matter what stage
you're at that you really take this
stuff to heart and that you keep it up
to date
it's wild on these streets folks and I'm
a realist
I always tell my students yes you got
the job but the first three months are
the most important of that job and maybe
even of your career those first three
months are hard
those first three months don't always
work out
so while you're getting paid to learn
how to code keep all this stuff up to
date
right we're seeing some layoffs come
around come around right if you're at a
company that did layoffs and you're the
first person in the door well guess what
you're the first person out
never exactly never stop looking for a
job always keep this stuff primed always
make sure this stuff right it's the FIFA
data structure
oh you didn't do them like that that
would be that's a fire tweet right there
somebody tweet that I'll I'll retweet it
[Music]
um
and so I think it's important to keep
that in mind whether you're you're just
starting the hunt and you need this
stuff for your current process whether
you're on class 11 of the ketchup crew
this is something you should start
working on now anyway and if you're on
the job make sure all this stuff is
buttoned up I know it's a lot I know
you're learning a lot I know you're
putting in a lot of work but you got to
stay on top of this stuff
to
all right
we're going to discuss are you ready
come to the boardroom
you're ready you're ready to interview
no matter
how prepared you think you are if you've
been keeping up with pace of class you
are ready easy dunk
we're going to talk about how to get an
interview how to do all the little
things to to make sure that you're
attractive to interviewers to all the
things you need to do to kind of get
past that first round to pass the
sniff test right and then how you can
get past the further rounds like the
technical challenges and things like
that so lots to cover we're going to go
through it uh at a fast clip at this
point in program
it is the hardest
for a lot of folks
there is a mental block that happens
where they legitimately don't want to
start
the hunt let me get bigger I'm gonna go
there's
a moment exactly where imposter syndrome
hits you doubt all the work that you put
in and you talk to yourself and say
maybe I'm not ready
you
are
ready
now are things gonna go perfect out the
gate
absolutely not
you have 60 companies that you have to
network your way into
and people are gonna ghost you
interviews are gonna go poorly things
are not gonna go your way
but that
is oh
okay
you are ready
you have amazing projects you have
skills that no one can take from you you
have put in the work
to start
the hunt so please
please
start the hunt
this is your sign
right this is your sign
this is your sign please
start
[Music]
you that has not started this is your
chance to start I'm asking you start
because once you start
you start to realize
that it's not as bad as you thought it
might be one of the things that so many
folks have said
right so many folks have said on Discord
especially during the tea spills
is that I thought these interviews were
going to be one thing and they were
completely different than what they had
built up in their head right you will be
surprised about how some of your
interviews go where it feels like you're
talking to a friend where everything
kind of Vibes it just works out right
get to that point where you get to those
interviews where you feel the weight
come off your shoulders because you are
ready
now the Hunt is a hunt you don't go out
and get your kill every single time you
go out to hunt you have to be ready for
it to take a while you have to be ready
for it to be something that can take you
to your breaking point I loved Jeff's
story from the T spill on Friday Jeff
time and time again had to take breaks
but just didn't give up and found a
phenomenal job that fits them perfectly
all because
they decided to not give up and that's
easier said than done
but that's the only thing that's
standing between you and a job
is you deciding to either not start the
hunt or to not complete it because the
hunt does not stop until you get a job
hundreds of folks with the same skill
set and experiences as you have gone out
and gotten a job you can do this you
have a whole Community behind you that
will support you in doing this you are
ready
just had a CTO of a major Canadian tech
company respond to me on LinkedIn with a
meeting date don't be afraid to reach
out once you start doing it magic starts
to happen the more you start to open
these doors the more opportunity that
can come and knock him that's it folks
that's it so tonight I'm gonna help you
button up everything that you need to
open all those doors to start the hunt
to continue the hunt or to refresh your
hunt
so you can actually get the job but
before we get into that you
are
ready
start
all right now how do we not run into
this situation
where uh they they they had 400 plus
applications uh with no luck right
they had 400 plus applications with no
luck uh it's because they were a dirty
dirty Clicker right they they just
clicked apply
never
ever
click apply
just doesn't work now can you can you
get lucky yeah you can get lucky and
when I say never ever click apply what
what I really mean is you network your
ass off you try every Avenue to get into
that company to talk to a real living
breathing human being to get your work
in front of people that can actually see
it if you've given it the good old 100
devish try you've really networked you
know in your heart of hearts you've done
everything to get in front of a real
human being and for some reason it's not
working out then you click apply
but if you just click apply on 400 plus
applications don't be surprised when
nothing happens
applying is your last resort exactly all
right so what do you need before you
start kind of networking your way and
start applying uh you need the checklist
and so you can do exclamation point
checklist here in chat or you can click
the link that's in the slides uh
remember this originally came from
Stephanie who came for two Mondays they
helped us build out our template replies
list you can do expiration Point
templates if you need those templates so
thank you Stephanie for helping us put
this together it's everything that you
need to pass the initial
sniff test right
you're about you your portfolio your
resume your GitHub your Twitter your
LinkedIn your Angelus your cover letter
your cover email it's all here
with check boxes so you can follow along
with examples that you can follow and
it's everything that you need to be
ready for the hunt now
uh I have a slide later on
one of our folks that went on to get a
job when they were doing their coffee
chats one of the coffee Chatters said
I've had dozens of folks apply
that did not have this stuff
right they legitimately didn't have
their GitHub set up they didn't have
their Twitter set up they didn't have a
portfolio they didn't have a resume so
when you see on LinkedIn 300
applications to a job you know 280 of
them are just Clickers
right they're just Clickers
who applies without a resume
this person
this person applies without the resume
but here's what they think they think
they have a resume
but their resume is hot garbage
haha garbage
right
they talk down about themselves they
don't highlight their skills or
experiences appropriately and so even
though they might have a resume there's
grammatical errors it's a dumpster fire
right and they're not following an
appropriate template for a resume they
just kind of grab something off of canva
and ran with it that's not how this
works folks ATS is looking for very
specific things like the automatic
automatic systems that are looking
through it recruiters are looking for
very specific things so who's not
applying it's not they're not applying
with it they just didn't put any thought
into it they didn't put any they didn't
put any logic into it
right
all right so grab the checklist has
everything that you need right has
everything you need uh to make sure that
your Hunt is set up appropriately now
before you go off the deep end before
you even start working through the
checklist
the most important thing you need to
think about is crafting your story
right crafting your story is a very
simple concept but it's hard in
execution you're trying to answer the
question why are you here
when you show up for an interview
why are you showing up for this
interview what is the plausible reason
that got you from where you were to
where you are now
you don't want to show up to an
interview be like well I need money
so that's why I'm here
um
you need a story that helps you pass the
sniff test why are you the most amazing
engineer how have your background your
skills and experience made you the best
engineer for this job
I don't care what you did before you can
craft that into a plausible reason as to
why you're the best engineer for the job
somebody put a job in chat for me please
just throw a job and chat
like like a non-coding job bartender all
right bartender was the first one I saw
in chat somebody give me a company
random company like a random tech
company
oh y'all went too fast the second time
Twitter I saw Twitter all right but it
was the first one I saw bartender and
Twitter
foreign so off the Dome how I'd craft my
story
over the years
I've had the privilege of working with
great software and horrible software in
my last opportunity I had to use a point
of sale system that continuously did not
work
I would enter in orders I would enter in
drinks and it just would never it would
never work for myself it would irate me
and it would upset my customers I
decided then and there to learn how to
write better code to fix these
point-of-sale systems so that
individuals could have the best
experience right now I know that Twitter
is on the precipice of Designing new
experiences for their users you're
testing things like the edit button and
things that will fundamentally change
discourse on the internet I want to be
at a company where I can put together my
past experiences building wonderful uis
that Delight users that make people
happy and bring say bring that same
skill set and experience to Twitter
foreign
why are you here
right why are you here
you need that story you need the ability
to talk highly about your past
experience I don't care what you did
before there is a way to craft that in a
way that makes you a better engineer
today because I'm telling you the folks
that you're going up against the folks
that are coming out of these four-year
degree programs that don't have a
hundred dollars project that haven't
worked with real clients that don't have
real professional experience You Should
Be Dancing circles around them your past
experience
all right your past experience is the
Difference Maker
is the thing that's going to set you
apart not hold you back so crafting your
stories the first thing that you need to
invest some time in doing uh Stephanie
did say that they're going to come back
and help us craft the story so we'll get
that scheduled for one of our Mondays
but that's the first thing you need to
spend your time on why are you here
because that story that's the first
sniff test
anyone coming out of this program has a
smell you have the boot camper smell
right
you have a boot camper smell
so
how do you get rid of that boot camper
smell well having a well-crafted story
that doesn't highlight that you just
learned how to code that doesn't
highlight that you just learned
JavaScript four months ago right none of
that gets highlighted
your skill set your experience the
things that you're able to do time does
not matter what can you do what have you
done and what could you do for that
company that's what matters and that's
what you need to highlight and that's
why crafting your story
becomes so important
how do you address your story for
different companies in different sectors
that's the hard part you should have a
different story for every company you
apply to
now you can you can mold that UI example
to be a bunch of different companies but
when you're talking to a recruiter
when you're talking to that first
gatekeeper for that company that you're
trying to apply to you want a
well-crafted story that explains why you
showed up why are you here it's not
because you just completed a boot camp
and you want a job it's because your
past skill set and experience is align
with the opportunity in front of you
right you have to be doing these things
that reduce your smell
do not put Junior anywhere in your title
do not put aspiring on your Twitter if
you write code you're a [__] software
engineer and your online presence should
reflect that
don't snitch on yourself don't undersell
yourself bruh
you all have amazing projects you've
worked with real clients committed real
code to real open source projects you've
built some amazing stuff
do not sell yourself short
The Hunt is not the time to be humble
The Hunt is the time to put your best
foot forward to do everything you can to
reduce the smell and to get a job
leave humble at home exactly blah
cool
foreign
important to remember that first nif
test is really to get you to the Nerds
right A lot of times in the process
there's a recruiter that's in your way
there's an HR person that's in your way
there's somebody that's trying to
qualify whether or not you are worthy
enough to interview those first persons
really have no ability to
evaluate whether or not you go to the
next round
right I mean sorry whether or not you
get hired they're kind of just there to
make sure that they're not putting too
much of a burden on the Nerds that
actually will do the evaluation as to
whether or not you're a good fit and so
there are a lot of things you can do
that past sniff tests right no person
ever got in trouble referring someone to
the engineers that graduated from MIT
right that just that just passes the
sniff test for you right and so what you
have to think about or what are the
things that are going to help me pass
that initial sniff test so that the
person that says they were worthy to go
talk to the engineers
knew how to code
right that they were a a good software
engineer what are those things that you
show up as that you talk about yourself
as that they say you know what you
should go on to the technical portion of
this interview
things like a well-manicured GitHub with
your green squares does it work for
everyone no but does it work for some
yes they see that you're pushing code
every day
pass the test
they see that you have amazing projects
in your portfolio past the test will
everyone look at your portfolio no but
some might
do you have real clients yes you passed
the test do you have real people that
could talk about your engineers yes you
pass the test there are all these things
that you could be doing that help reduce
that smell and that's what we're talking
about tonight
the goal is to get to the Nerds once you
get to the Nerds it really comes down to
two questions
can this person code and do I want to
work with them for the next two years
can this person code
and do I want to work with them for the
next two years that's it that's what
they're trying to surmise once you get
past that original person
once you get to the nerves once you get
to the technical folks can you code it
won't work for the next two years and
the beautiful thing is
you can game either one of these
you could be really great at coding and
get the job you could be really great at
the person wanting to work with you for
the next two years and also get the job
the reason why we talk through prep the
reason why we talk through the ways that
you go about these interviews that we're
going to get to in a little bit is
because each person that you're
interviewing with typically has a vote
they get to say whether or not you go to
the next round right whether or not you
get hired whether or not they would want
to be your co-worker
and so when you're in these interviews
it comes down to can you code
I want to work with you for the next two
years and you can play both of those
games
mine was that I got my job being good at
the second one not the first but it
worked hell yes
yeah and it's very true the definition
of can code varies hugely between
different groups of nerds exactly one
one group of nerds might look at your
100 products it can go damn this person
knows how to code another group of nerds
might look at your GitHub and go damn
they push code every day they know how
to code we don't know
what each company is going to use as the
metric of success that's why all this is
about is opening as many doors as
possible some people will come to me and
say Leon no one's looked at my portfolio
great you haven't run into the people
that care about your portfolio Leon
nobody's looked at my resume great you
haven't run into the people that look at
your resume we're talking about 60
companies give it some time we talk
about 180 people at those 60 companies
give yourself some time and find your
group of nerds some interviews go
horrible some interviews go well
we had
well blah blunted it during the tea
spill but we've had Engineers that one
day they completely
they cried in an interview were made to
cry an interview and then the next day
got a six-figure offer
that person did not change from
Wednesday to Thursday
why was one interview hell and the other
interview heaven
they did not change in less than 24
hours it's because different companies
test different things different people
work at different companies you're gonna
find a fit the reasons I say you apply
to 60 companies and not apply Network
your way into 60 companies is because
there are 60 different cultures there
are 60 different groups of people you
find you're fit and that's when this
stuff goes well
the numbers game you're playing a
numbers game do not get upset at
yourself because the first 10 don't go
your way you just haven't found your
people yet
just takes one
it just takes one out of the 60. some
folks get lucky it's the first one they
ever do some folks do 55 and that's when
they find it
cool now one of the first things you
need to do one of the first few doors
you're gonna open that reduce the smell
and make it likely for you to make it
into the initial rounds of interviewing
or your portfolio your Twitter and your
LinkedIn
now
telescope thieves uh
who went on to get an amazing job uh
they had something to say and I kind of
mentioned a little bit earlier
just had a coffee chat was told they see
so many applicants with empty githubs
no portfolios and no projects under
their belts on the right track y'all and
definitely giving us the cheat codes I
agree with this
wholeheartedly
you know how I know that this is true
do you want to know how I know that this
is true without a shadow of the doubt
it's because I've been asking
the 1300 people that are here
for for months
to push to GitHub every day
to have a good portfolio and to build a
100 hours project
and um
some of you don't have it done
so when you've been in a program
that asks you week after week month
after month to do this stuff and you're
not doing it how is some poor sucker off
the street getting it done
it just ain't
it just ain't happening
so that means when you do it
when you have the portfolio that's
popping you have the Twitter that's
looking good you have the Lincoln that's
standing out
right
you're putting yourself ahead of the
pack not all the way to the front but
you're running it with a different group
of people you ever watched like a you
ever watched like a competitive race
right there's two packs right you have
the folks that are actually trying to
win the race and everyone else
you at least want to be in the group of
folks that are trying to win the race
don't
be in that group of folks that don't
have their portfolio their Twitter their
LinkedIn their GitHub all that crap
you're still running
but you ain't gonna get anywhere you're
not gonna win nothing
why put in all the effort why put in the
work why are you still running if you're
not going to do the stuff that's going
to literally help you win the race it
makes no sense just stop
I don't hope you stop I hope you do the
things that you know are going to open
the doors I hope you do the things that
you know are going to be the difference
in getting the job
run with the front of the pack
right
run with the front of the pack run with
the folks that actually want to win
right run with the folks that are going
to get the job done
get this stuff done it helps you open
the doors and I'm gonna say it and I'll
be the first person to say it
you don't need to open every door
but the more you open
the more you open
the more likely you are to get a job
yeah Dr Eric Thomas exactly
um winners when losers lose
it's a really rough saying some people
really take this saying to heart and I
wish I hope you understand what they're
trying to say
winners find a way to win
did Jeff lose
I'm gonna I'm gonna [__] cry
no
because winners win
and losers lose
Jeff had every log
thrown their way
every log thrown their way
months in between interviewing
but winners win
and losers lose
because losers give up
that's it
that's it winners find a way to win
that's it there's can't say it no better
winners win losers lose winners find a
way to win
Jeff was our last tea spill
um for folks that missed the T spill uh
Jeff had some things come up in life
they they stopped the first cohort they
joined the ketchup crew uh they they
they they they had a lot of things that
got in their way
but winners win and losers lose Jeff
found a way did Jeff open all the doors
I'm asking you to open no they found the
ones that made it possible for them to
win
so I'm showing you all the freaking
doors that I can it's up to you to
figure out which ones you want to open
cool starts off with your portfolio your
Twitter your LinkedIn
uh blah sorry
here's Bloss portfolio
beautiful portfolio
full stack software engineer I
that worked
uh beautiful website
good about me why are they here what are
they doing projects that they've worked
on the things they could do for you
right and at the end uh you can see that
it was a template
right
no need if you're not a designer use a
[__] template that's it you don't
need to you don't need a big brain it
you don't need to overthink it
yeah yeah tell them about themselves May
sunflower uh it should be saying senior
software engineer blah come on now
senior software engineer
right completely free
you just grab it plug in your stuff you
got yourself a portfolio and I love this
portfolio because not only did it help
them get a senior software engineering
job for their first engineering job but
it also helped them land a thousand
dollar client off the rip
not not anything wild
re-template
beautiful portfolio
great client amazing job don't overthink
it
uh Twitter Twitter is a powerful tool to
help you find a job
um I love Jeff's Twitter I think it's
pretty simple
and uh
kind of just has a nice photo Jeff
developer photographer animal lover
cheese guy uh says what they are what
they do what they're into what they do
at their free time I love it
I love that it says cheese Enthusiast
that's gonna that's gonna I'm gonna be
interested in that what is the cheese
Enthusiast right that's something we're
gonna talk about you don't have to
overthink it simple to the point fill it
out say what you do what you're into
make it look good don't have just like a
blank background right
a little bit of effort
yep and don't waste time redoing
perfectly good portfolios good call blah
get it done and move on with the hunt
is Twitter really need it yes
it is a door that you can open does
everyone open it no
but it's a really important door because
a lot of developers a lot of developers
hang out on Twitter
it's an easy way to network with
individuals the the trick that I've
taught or I showed you what I do is I
have private Twitter lists
I put every person that I'm trying to
network my way into like to get a job on
that private Twitter list
start liking their posts
retweet them every once in a while leave
a comment you do that for a couple of
weeks you went from a nobody
to an acquaintance
and acquaintances get their DMS read so
is Twitter necessary
it's a door that you can open
I think it's a really important door
it's the easiest way I know to turn a
massive amount of developers into folks
that'll actually give you time of day
Twitter's helped me meet connect with
lots of devs yes it's just it's just the
easiest it's just the easiest way I know
to interact with a lot of folks quickly
and build up that rapport with
individuals especially in Tech so is it
necessary it's a door
I think you should open it I think you
should take it seriously I think you
should build private lists of all the
folks that are on your Hit List which
we'll get to in a little bit that you
want to reach out to that you want to
engage with and start engaging with them
just like leave some comments get on
their radar and when the time is right
you can reach out via DM say hey I saw
you have an open position I would love
to to chat about the role boom
coffee chats amazing Twitter so easy to
find folks and talk to folks and get
coffee chats to build up that Network
Twitter feels more social compared to
LinkedIn it is it's way more relaxed
right it's way more relaxed it's a
little bit easier to interact with folks
um Sam I think is a master class on this
I know Sam is stepping away from Twitter
now
um
but if you just go to their Twitter and
like start from the beginning like I'm
dead serious if you want a master class
on how to do Twitter right
on how to like grow a network uh to meet
other developers Sam is the best I've
ever seen in the whole wide world
and they
they started with 100 devs and really
took the Twitter very quickly go to
their profile start at the beginning and
look at the tweets they sent look how
they interacted with people uh it's just
it just really is worthwhile to spend
that time
yeah
hey profits
uh and then last but not least is is
LinkedIn uh you want a decent LinkedIn
um
I still want to pop up somebody's
message so I'm going to open this over
here real quick
so Nick was one of our other tea
Spillers I think they have a pretty
solid
um they have a pretty solid
uh LinkedIn as well and so it's all
linked here in the slides I love that
they put software engineer right in the
right in the title
um they're connected with a lot of folks
they put their what they do where
they're based all the stuff that we
actually do like the stuff that's in the
resume template they put into the
LinkedIn they shared some important
stuff uh they list 100 devs they list
some of this other stuff they've done in
the past right
um and then what I also love is that
they've joined the 100 devs right they
joined the 100 devs group on LinkedIn
and they asked folks for endorsements so
did a recruiter ever get in trouble
recommending someone that had 60
endorsements for JavaScript and 59
endorsements for react and 59
endorsements for node.js
nah
what up Nick hey juice nah so get on get
on the LinkedIn group
and say hey I would love to be endorsed
for JavaScript react node and we see
somebody post it boom hit it up
that's it
if they're in the 100 devs group do they
know JavaScript yes do they know react
the basics yes did they know JS yes
so is it hard to recommend somebody for
those three things when you know they
went through this program and did all
three of them no
boom
so go through and do it
and they got 20 other skills too which
is pretty dope uh so I think this
LinkedIn is a pretty good LinkedIn uh
definitely go through it make sure yours
mimics this uh I also shared
um Danny Thompson's LinkedIn course I
really do recommend it it's completely
free it'll walk you through all the
things you need to be thinking about
when setting up your LinkedIn uh I need
a
need a Like a Knife bot command for that
course but it's on Discord I've shared
it before
um make sure you you can just go through
the follow-on materials channel search
for LinkedIn and it'll pop up
how many LinkedIn endorsements is too
many there is no such thing as too many
you know
is that a YouTube course yeah he has it
on YouTube it's like four videos
where he shares like all the most
um
all the most important stuff to think
about when going through Linkedin so
yeah
uh will you checked under every LinkedIn
group for folks who are waiting yeah I
added everyone last week uh so if you
just recently
um signed it up I'll check after class
to get most folks in I do not accept you
if you do not have a profile like if you
don't have a name and a photo I don't
accept you
hey Reviving Juliet that's awesome first
time chatter uh thought I'd share I'm
the ketchup crew uh your info especially
stuff on passing the sniff test and
getting socials in order got me a three
thousand dollar freelancing client
that's huge congrats uh first ever money
I made from coding boom
packet Discord said tons of people are
adding me on LinkedIn without a message
never ever although those
clickers don't ever add somebody on
LinkedIn without a message
even it's just hey we're both in 100
devs loved your profile send a message
let them know
why you're adding them on LinkedIn your
LinkedIn if you got anything
if you got anything
from my speed run classes what was the
one thing that you just kept seeing in
my speed run classes
what did you see like every single time
I was finding somebody a job I was
looking at looking up a job I was
looking for people that worked at that
company what did you see every single
[__] time
yes I was sending them personalized
messages but I was connected to them
already
they were always second connections
almost every single person I pulled up
random people from random companies I
was connected to I treat my LinkedIn
like gold
I add folks that I know so that when I
see that I'm connected to someone I can
ask for the connection
right treat your LinkedIn that way too
right if you actually know somebody from
100 devs then add them like if you
worked on a project with them if you've
met them in voice chat don't just
randomly add them like having more
people on LinkedIn doesn't really do
anything for you but when you can use it
as a real Network to get intros that's a
whole different story
cool
and uh last but not least before we move
on we're going to take a break
all right let's we can take a break here
when we come back I'll talk about kind
of the things we just covered so we're
at the top of the hour if you're new
around these parts we'd like to take a
break at the top of every hour to be
healthy if you are able
all right if you're able please get up
move around hydrate take care of
yourself
um Taz Express 2022 gave me a hydrate
thank you
bid mule and player 09x give me a
posture check I'm going to get into that
the only JCS give me another hydrate
thank you
and
government tour gave us a two minute
extension on the first timer
so this will be a not a five minute
break but a seven minute break folks
please
you're able go look out the window
go tell somebody you love them all right
so we talked about kind of portfolio
Twitter LinkedIn
um
now we have the portfolio piece so
here's my little bit of code for you uh
if designer equals true then go ahead
and design your portfolio if not use a
template
all right
um somebody says you're a developer why
did you use a template uh because I'm
not a designer
my designs look like garbage do you want
somebody that makes garbage designs or
somebody that can build amazing products
because I can build amazing products my
designs just look like hot garbage
because I'm not a designer
all right so templates the place to
start
uh is HTML5 up uh they just have free
templates they're not shady like they
don't have like weird stuff like I don't
know there's a lot of places when you
try to download templates you always
wind up with like an extra buddy on your
computer
um and so I like this site they're free
uh once you get a paid client I am
definitely a fan of using better
templates uh theme virus has a lot of
them uh depends what you want to use
like there are a lot of like Tailwind
templates down stuff like that so
um
there these are like the only places to
find them but just kind of like once you
get a client and if you have some of the
money coming in from your client work
and you want a better template you can
but this is totally fine
people get amazing clients amazing jobs
with just HTML5 ohm templates so don't
don't stress it
uh hosting
for your templates uh for your for your
basic portfolio and stuff just use
netlify netlify.com drop is super easy
you literally drag your folder onto
netlify.drop and it hosts it instantly
um you don't need to buy a domain you
can just use the netlify dot app
um one of the examples I always give is
Sean
um RC alumni and definitely helps a lot
of folks here at 100 devs uh they
famously got an offer at Amazon and an
amazing client just using the netlify
domain like it was just the Sean uh
there's like Sean Charles at dot netlify
dot app and that got them a job at Fang
and an amazing client so you don't need
to buy a domain you can use the netlify
dot app for whatever a completely free
to host and to use that domain but if
you do want to buy a domain uh name
cheap and I want my name or where I
think you should get your domains from
but once again this is a completely free
program do not pay for anything you do
not need to buy a domain
you can just use netlify.app and it
works just as fine nobody cares
cool
uh next bit of things that we need to
help us pass the sniff test is the
resume so the resume is pretty
interesting I've given you this example
resume here this Bob coder you'll notice
that it's a docx never use docx
always always export this as a PDF I
just use that so that it's easier for
folks to edit however they want to edit
it
um
this resume
just [__] works it just works
it just works
you don't need to use something else
right and so I think a lot of folks say
Leon like my um my resume is holding me
back because you're not using the
template just use this templated resume
it just works your resume should be one
page and it should be this thing this
resume has tables it does not if you
save it as a PDF it does not have tables
I don't know where that came from
it's not true if you can when you go to
the PDF and you highlight over it if you
see that happen then you you know that
it can be seen by ATS
if when you highlight it you see it pop
up that's that's ATS approved I can also
show it to you by going to the CV
compiler which picks up everything so TV
compiler they do have a free version uh
and that free version
um that free version will show you that
it is ATS compliant
uh people think like ATS is like a fancy
thing all ATS is doing is like yanking
text and so if you're able to yoink text
from a PDF then your resume is ATS
compliant mm-hmm
so here is the Bob coder resume in CV
compiler
you'll notice that all the normal stuff
looks good there are a few things that
we could change though
right there are a few things that we
could change so I'm actually probably
going to be uh I'm gonna probably be
updating this a little bit because there
are two big things I think we should
change
uh in demand Tech skills this just
changes over time
um so they analyzed a thousand vacancies
at Big tech companies and they found out
that there are some technologies that
are good to have and
um so we probably want to swap in some
of these words just to to to to to make
sure we're getting picked up by a
company that doesn't actually look at
your resume right some companies don't
look at your resume they just use a
computer to say whether or not you're a
good fit so by having these in-demand
skills you can just screenshot this from
the video I would be good things to add
whatever you feel like is a good fit or
you want to invest some time it could be
a good fit
um and then the other thing that was a
thing here is that these Niche skills we
have to add some of these uh and so
we're probably going to figure out how
to add some of these we will probably
have like an extra class uh where we
work through this
um but all the other stuff was was fine
uh and so I think this is pretty good uh
you'll see some stuff that I don't
recommend like the certifications I'm
not a big fan of putting certifications
on your resume I think that smells
um so this is kind of where ATS versus
what's going to actually work and so
um for me this resume has been used by
hundreds and hundreds of folks that have
gotten jobs right literally hundreds and
gotten jobs I really do believe that it
works and I hope that you use it too
uh even AWS certs uh yeah no those are
like professional certs so like
professional search you can keep
um but things that are like
like things that just show that you just
learned how to code keep off your resume
yeah like AWS Azure and Google Cloud
certs are my exceptions anything else I
don't put on my resume I think that
somebody sees that and it might hold you
back does it does it always hold you
back no but I think for a lot of folks
it can
yeah no udemy certs or things like that
um so yeah we might have to change up
some of these skills based off of what
uh the CV compiler is saying the link
the CV compiler is here in chat so once
you fill out your resume you definitely
want to run it through CV compiler
um it's free like you don't pay like
don't pay like there's more stuff that
you can see
right right there's more stuff that you
can see if you pay but you don't need
that just make sure that it passes the
basic checks that they give you if
you're wondering what CV compiler would
say you need help with
it's this stuff
pause the video
this stuff
there you go
that's everything y'all
cool
so
if you use this resume template you pass
the CV compiler after you're done
editing it you'll know everything that
works and that you
um are picked up on it cool see if you
can probably get the hug of death yeah I
think we sent a lot of people that way
cool
all right cover letter there's another
example it's in the template sorry it's
in the checklist so in the checklist it
gives you an example of it but if you
need an example of a cover letter I got
you here you go cover letter that you
can you can work through
um it's all there for you let's real
quick before we go on to the cover
letter I do want to take a second to
talk about the resume
um I kind of just showed it to you but I
do want to talk about it real quick
you'll notice that
how long we've talked about this a lot
how long does
a recruiter
or the initial gatekeeper spend reading
your resume on average
six seconds
all right
um
timer
all right you tell me when it hit when
we hit when we hit six seconds
all right creative detail oriented
software engineer with a deep interest
in AI proven track record
foreign
and it's all you need to know I'm a
creative detail-oriented software
engineer with a deep interest in Ai and
a proven track record boom that's it
that's it
if you have something like I'm an
aspiring Junior engineer
bruh
bruh nah get that [__] out of here they
got six seconds to figure out who you
are what you do right let's try it again
ready I'm gonna you tell me when six
seconds are over chat
I'm gonna I'm gonna start at software
engineer and work my way through I'm
gonna skip the summary software engineer
software engineer 100 devs they built a
company for some coffee company they're
a full stack developer at some
Consulting agency
so in those six seconds I saw that
you're a software engineer you worked as
a software engineer you did some
Consulting
do you go on to the next round or not
right like you got to think about this
it's not just the computer that you're
playing
right it's not just the computer that
you're playing
right it's not just a computer you're
playing there's also the the way that
you structure your resume you're you're
going up against the recruiter as well
right you're going up against a
recruiter as well
mm-hmm
and so you got to think about what
they're going to see you're going to
notice that
I have very quickly my experiences at
100 devs I have my projects that look
like real companies right
right that like when people when you put
your projects don't be like
an app I worked on during class time no
frame it as though is a real company
right just like it just just give it a
name
hip coffee co uh
happy notes we did a to-do list happy
notes
right give it a name
um even like in other projects too like
a lot of stuff that we did right it's
the way you talk about it
uh we built a slot machine don't call it
a slot machine call it a small Lakes
casino virtual slot machine uh we built
uh a NASA API don't say don't say uh
NASA API project no it's the Los Angeles
Stargazer Society a picture of the day
web app with NASA API integration
if you were here for the very first
JavaScript class you built a background
picker for a YouTuber that YouTuber was
me so you made an on-demand background
color picture changer for a partner
twitch streamer
and many more
don't snitch on yourself
don't underplay the real [__] that
you've done
give it a name
talk your talk
uh I'm a big fan of having your projects
in line with 100 devs because we saw
what six seconds gives you
in those six seconds the reason I
skipped from software engineer to full
stack web developer is because I saw
that there were some real looking
projects on here
so I didn't have to actually read them I
just jumped to the next thing
and in those six seconds I saw two
experiences as an engineer
that enabled me to be like oh okay this
person's probably an engineer
passes the sniff test
yep
and then you put the other stuff you
want here I'm a big fan of having a
volunteer section and then the big thing
people always stress about is their
education
um you don't have to put the dates of
your education
if you don't want to
right
and then if you're just spending six
seconds on this what are you what are
you noticing about this right away I I
purposely let something off here I
didn't snitch on I didn't snitch on Bob
here
does this say Bob has a degree
no this Bob does not have a degree from
UMass Boston but their major was
business administration no degree no
graduation date but if you're only
spending six [__] seconds looking at
this would you ever hyper focus on that
nah
you wouldn't even notice it
all right but never even notice it
uh and you don't have to put dates dates
can be snitching on yourself for a lot
of folks a lot of folks if you if you
complete your degree 20 years ago good
don't put dates on there
will the technical interviewer notice
probably not
most technical interviewers do the exact
same thing if they even read your resume
if they even read your resume they spend
six seconds on it
so if you're stressing about what to do
for Education boom that's it you don't
have you don't have to have a graduation
date
you don't have to have your degree
right that's it
beautiful
cool all right so that's the the resume
there
I'm a big fan of having 100 devs and
then um you're freelancing separate and
then any other job that you think is
worthwhile to put on there have real
targeted goals like things that you
actually did numbers are better
um
yeah
cool and I love having at least one like
Tech related volunteering in there so
many conferences are coming up just
volunteer for a conference and throw
that on there it's just good to have a
little bit of something Tech related
that's not job related on there it just
gives you something to talk about a lot
of times when I'm in interviews with
folks I'm like oh you went to the free
software
um
like you went to Libre Planet which is
their conference and like yeah I was
there like oh and I just gives you
something to talk about
cool
resume we talked about cover letter
GitHub
GitHub please
use the profile generator make your
GitHub look good
your GitHub should have nowadays with
GitHub you can have a beautiful readme
file for your whole profile so that your
GitHub looks great right have you ever
saw somebody's GitHub and it's like whoa
this GitHub looks dope they were
probably using some sort of generator uh
and so this generator will help you
figure out like what to put like what
you want to do right so hi my you put
your name in you put the project that
you're currently working on you put a
link to it you check off the skills that
you that you have right and um you can
put in all your Social Links if you want
and then you just generate it and it'll
give me a it'll give you a file right
it'll give you a file that you can add
to your GitHub uh and that'll give you
just like a nice a nice GitHub uh
profile that looks good
mm-hmm that looks good
it has been real lord I appreciate that
um and then the other thing you want to
do is you want to use this readme
template for every single project for
every single project that you have on
your GitHub there should be a beautiful
readme for it and you have like what it
does a link to it live you have a gif
record a gif of your project
so that it's like moving and looks good
right put the technology that you use so
you're getting picked up by the sweet
sweet robots and then my face part is
the optimizations you don't even have to
code the hard Parts just say the stuff
that you would have done had you had
more time right shows that you know what
it is you just didn't do it yet
cool and then the last thing is like
give them other examples to to click
through to
right so
right give them some other stuff that
you could you could click yet
uh some other stuff that they can click
through too so if they did land on this
template they can see the other stuff
that you built
what's the best thing you used to record
for those screen gifts
um
I use Cloud app which is free I don't
know if that's Mac only
um but I I use cloud I was just really
easy just like you just grab a window
like you're taking a screenshot and it
turns it into a gif for you but I'm sure
there are plenty of other ones some
people are saying share X is free pick
pick
um OBS yeah if you just do like a screen
recording if you wanted to
um screen to get there's like a couple
of ones that people are recommend I
don't know any of those except for OBS
but I use I use Cloud app and I guess
I've done it in OBS before too
TJ Khan is saying don't use GitHub
Street generator though if you've backed
it your pushes on the generator it'll
tell on you uh yeah so uh the other
thing that we're trying to do with our
githubs is push every day
and the reason why we push every day on
GitHub is because recruiters love those
green squares they do they do they do
and so you want a GitHub that has a that
every single day it looks like you push
code right and on GitHub every day you
push code you get a green square but
some days you miss a push or some days
you realize you haven't pushed in a
month and you want to back date all
those green squares you can do it uh
shout out hellos Rufio uh hello it's
Rufio an illustrious member of the
stream team has a VOD on how to fill in
your green squares if you don't know how
to do that
uh and so you can watch that VOD if you
missed a few but those green squares are
really important because no recruiter
no recruiter ever got in trouble
recommending somebody that pushed code
every single day
think about that
they they recommend
they recommend
somebody to the next round
and the person says this person was
horrible like they didn't know how to
code it all and the recruiter goes oh
they pushed every single day to GitHub
that's it end the story oh I guess well
that's weird I don't know what's going
on then right like so it's one of those
things that's one of the easiest way to
pass that sniff test
all right
now does every single recruiter care
about it obviously no but the ones that
do
oh boy
oh boy when they're looking at two
candidates one candidate has a dusty ass
udemy tutorial from 10 years ago and you
got pushes every single day who's going
to the next round
you are my friend you are
had a coffee chat with a Dev when they
saw my green squares daily said that no
that's bad it's because they feel bad
that you're a better engineer pushing
more code doing more work getting more
things done and it makes them feel bad
about themselves because they can't keep
up with your productivity they got got
now the next thing
the next thing is you want a hundred
hours project
um your beautiful MVPs are due
technically the whole project is due but
what are deadlines anymore this is the
penultimate class who cares
um
your 100 hours project is the
culmination of what you're able to do
right of what you're able to do what
you're able to build the things you're
able to accomplish it can be something
that ties your past into your present it
is the thing
that comes up the most honestly in your
interviews
it is literally the thing that comes up
the most if you've come to any of the
tea spills most of the folks that were
getting jobs didn't even have
technical interviews
because all this [__]
was in a row lined up button on top
ribbon tied do they have a portfolio
pass the sniff test do they have a good
GitHub pass the sniff test do they have
real big projects pass the sniff test do
they have real people they work with
real clients pass the sniff test
right we have to realize is that all
these things are opening doors and when
all the doors are open you can fit an
elephant through
and so that 100 hours project you need
to have done is the culmination of your
work it's taking a hundred hours to
build something that your own that you
can talk through from beginning to end
that you can show all all of your
knowledge off
right
and it comes up the most so many
interviewers will say hey show me
projects that you've built oh I saw on
your GitHub this was your PIN project
tell me about it right this is the thing
that gets jobs
don't be this person
don't be this person this person we know
didn't have a good GitHub didn't have a
hundred hours project didn't have real
clients didn't have
a well manicured portfolio didn't have a
beautiful resume
this is the person I'm talking about
thank you blah don't be this person
all right all these things matter
wasn't as dope of us no you're built
different I just I just want to
get into your brain how [__] awesome
you are
I don't know how
to to like
to to get that I just want you to
believe that because you are you're
going up against chumps that don't know
what they're doing that think that they
spent four years [__] around to get a
degree that don't have any real projects
in their portfolio is enough it's not
enough
show me your GitHub
show me your projects show me who you
worked with
show me the real clients you worked with
show me your pushes
you're going up against scrubs
and on TLC
I don't want no scrubs in 100 devs
because you're not we're built different
we've done the work
we've done what we needed to do
we're not this person
all right now
once you have
all this stuff
your your groundwork has been laid
you're going to be able to get past that
first person you're going to be able to
get past that first nif test you need to
start opening up doors into companies
and the most important thing that you
will do
like outside of like once you have your
professional stuff set up literally the
most important thing you will do is your
hit list
gets jobs
if you've done if you do nothing else
other than get all your professional
stuff all your projects done and then do
a hit list
[__] coding challenges screw lead code
Wars don't matter if you just built up
all the stuff we talked about thus far
and then dumped every last waking moment
into your Hit List you would get a job
because networking your way into an
opportunity counts way more than
anything else getting your stuff in
front of a real human being that can see
your real projects that can see your
real experience and can see the things
that you can do that's why we do The Hit
List so the hit list is probably the
most important thing you will ever do
for your career and you start off by
using the sheet so you can do
exclamation point sheet inside of
chat here you'll have your general
networking but there's also The Hit List
uh we've done two classes where we've
done The Hit List live I set the world
record price I still have the world
record folks I haven't seen anybody
break that world record yet
and guess what uh in a couple couple
weeks probably I'm gonna do it again I'm
waiting for folks to break it I want
somebody to break it I still owe
somebody their hit list so I'm gonna
give you all a week or two to break it
and then I'm coming for y'all I'm gonna
be I gotta be the two-time world record
holder right and so I threw down the
challenge already nobody beat it I mean
it's a hard let's be real it's hard to
beat that record uh but as soon as it's
broken I'm gonna do another one to show
that I'm I'm that guy and I also owe
somebody their hit list so personally I
owe for your Hit List we're still gonna
do it just give me a little bit to dunk
on someone
it's hard it is hard it is hard um
that's why we did it live I wanted to
show you how I did it
um and we added all those companies in
that short period we did added 30
companies in one class session that's
wild
uh so the way that The Hit List works is
you find a company that has an open role
and then you find the people that work
at that company right uh your goal is to
network your way in to 60 companies that
have open roles right where you're not
just clicking apply
right where you're not just clicking
apply
all right you're not just clicking pie
you're not working your way into 60
companies you're gonna find the hiring
manager that company if you can you're
going to add them to your Hit List
you're going to follow them on Twitter
you're going to find their email and
Hunter i o you're going to ask for a
coffee chat you're gonna send a thank
you you're gonna get the recommendation
to that job if you don't know how to ask
for a coffee chat you don't know how to
send a thank you exclamation point
template here in chat
exclamation point templates here in chat
it might be templates
the template or templates
as templates
here you go
expiration Point templates and chat
thank you Stephanie how do I send a
coffee chat request boom
look at these messages you can be
sending how do I send a thank you note
boom here's how you can send a thank you
note
how do I ask for an introduction boom
how do I follow up boom
it's all here folks
it's all here
what you waiting for
it's all here and if you want to see 40
messages that I sent
40 messages to real people the actual
messages I would send
all right
go watch the previous two classes here
that are vods on Twitch
right both those classes have the 40
different people I reached out to 40
different messages exactly what I would
send use that as your springboard to
figure out how you could tweak those
messages to be the messages that you
need to send
and then don't overthink it
don't overthink it
it's 180 people
you're gonna get ghosted by most
you're gonna get ghosted by
most
that's okay are those classes on YouTube
not yet they will make it on there
eventually uh YouTube always lags behind
it's just a pain in the butt for me to
edit stuff and put it up but all the
vods are here on Twitch uh so you can
always grab the vods on Twitch they make
it over to YouTube because I don't
monetize my YouTube so there's no ads on
YouTube
um so yeah twitch I think twitch runs
ads on the vods which kind of sucks but
uh yeah on YouTube I don't monetize any
of my videos so you can watch all the
videos ad free and they eventually make
it up there it just takes me a little
while to get them up
cool uh most will ghost you uh you got
to keep that in mind that's okay we're
playing the numbers game folks numbers
game
uh you find the hiring manager you can't
find them you find an engineer on the
team you can't find engineer on the team
you find the recruiter you can't find
the recruiter you find their mama
and you say that's the for a coffee chat
right
you're trying to find
these folks
uh so let's do a live let's do one I
know we did two classes on let's do one
live uh somebody give me a a location
kinetic uh what was the first one the
first one was actually Denver let's go
ahead Denver
let's go to Angelus
Angel list or angelco.jobs
there we go boom
uh I have like
an unreasonable fear
of typing in
Angel list
because of Angel Fire anybody remember
Angel Fire
Angel Fire was like a competitor to
geocities
anybody remember what happens if you
misspelled Angel Fire
anybody have this memory is it just me
yeah I just took you to a porn site I
just took you to a porn site so I
remember being like on on the on the
library computer trying to go to Angel
Fire mistyping it I'm trying to go to my
Harry Potter Dragon Ball Z fan site and
uh some stuff popped up and that that
memory just forever uh emblazed in my
mind because I spelled I think I spelled
Angel angle or something like that it
was a typo yeah
memories all right uh let's change this
to Denver
Colorado uh we're gonna make sure that
there's no um we're gonna turn off the
remote job we're just going to look for
local
um I have if we look at my filters I am
filtering out senior lead staff
principal manager director just like I
don't want to see those I'm looking for
entry-level roles so I filter those out
I'm looking for a JavaScript node
node.js you don't have to hold yourself
to that it's going to filter out a lot
right now
um we see a back-end developer role
uh full stack engineer
Uh Kevin Davey is listed as the the
contact
uh they don't have anything here but
maybe we can find them on LinkedIn Kevin
Davey on LinkedIn or we can even say
what was the name of the site sticky
leaf
they link it
if you leave Co
all right so what I would do right off
the rip is we could take sticky Leaf
coat I don't think it'll probably come
up in Hunter but we can try
dream job
whoa what's this
new domain search
okay come on you're you're killing me
live here all right they didn't have any
results I'm pretty sure
that it would probably just be
Kevin
at Sticky Leaf Co and so I would send an
email to Kevin
right as sticky Leaf Co
and I would say to Kevin
this is my dream dreams do come true
would be my would be my headline I saw
that you were looking for a full stack
engineer on Angel list I am in the
Denver area I feel like I could be a
really good fit for this role uh please
respond
I'm desperately waiting for your wrist
now please respond uh I would love to
connect about the open roles uh in the
next coming days right boom that's it
takes took us what 30 seconds to find
that it was Kevin
stickylief.co send an email right and
you shoot it off
um 50 to 70k but they're giving up three
percent equity if that means anything to
you it shouldn't uh Equity almost never
matters you shouldn't really you should
like take it off the table when
considering uh but I don't know what the
Denver Market is 70 might be low but
um
foreign
who cares you don't you don't
pre-qualify the leads get the offer and
then negotiate
get the offer and maybe you don't wind
up going the sticky Leaf maybe you wind
up going to Josh AI but you have a 70k
offer for sticky leaf and you go to Josh
hey hey I already got an offer from the
Denver area is there any way that you
can get me closer to that 120 that you
listed on the job application right I
already have an offer but Josh AI is
where I want to be I can't see myself
working anywhere else besides Josh AI is
there any wiggle room to get me closer
uh to the to the listed amount on your
application
that's it so don't ever pre-qualify
based on how much money the language
don't do any of that get the offer and
then you can negotiate
right that's it if you want to see the
real examples the real things I would
send the real letters all that stuff we
did 40 of these in the previous two
classes they're either probably on
YouTube right now
um if you're watching this in the future
or you can check the vods on Twitch
boom but don't don't take yourself out
the game let them take you out the game
that's it
don't ever be a
Clicker
all right
now eventually once you're in the throes
of interviewing and you are starting to
get
you're you're going to be interviewing
at 60 right so those first few
interviews or should be ones that you
don't really care about honestly
right uh it should be ones that you that
you really don't
that if you got the job great if you
don't who cares right get your licks in
make sure that you get more comfortable
interviewing you kind of see what the
process is really like and
um
once you're starting to interview you
want to start
figuring out what are your premium
companies like what are the places where
you really
where you really want to apply and
you're going to do everything we've done
so far plus you're going to start
tweeting at them you're going to write a
blog post about something in their space
and you're going to build a small
project something that takes you an hour
to a couple hours you're going to tweak
one of our past projects to be something
um that's that's kind of in the realm
that would be for that company so if it
was sticky Leaf we might take our coffee
app and turn that into
something else we might take our
um not the coffee app it might take like
our our binary upload boom
and turn it into something that enables
you to pick your favorite strands and
post your favorite strands right like
you could you could modify that to be
something
um that's more in line with that company
so that when they say like when you when
you reach out hey like I already built
an app in this space would you take a
look at it
mm-hmm
cool
now this is everything you need to do to
like get interviews right to get folks
coming responding to your your
applications to get your foot in the
door
um if you do these things you will start
to get interviews now once you have
interviews coming in there are some
things we got to start thinking about
let me take a second I want to see if
there's any questions this is like all
the groundwork you have to lay all the
doors I think are worthwhile to open
before you actually start getting
interviews and once you start getting
interviews there's some other things we
need to think about
questions
do you have any specific tips for the
remote job hunt well if you look at our
last VOD we did 30 companies that were
all remote the harder thing about remote
is that being local is a competitive
Advantage because you're going up
against less people in a lot of cases
but when you're remote the referral or
the networking your way in is way more
important because you're just going up
against a lot of folks that probably
don't have great applications but it's
still clogging up the works a little bit
but if you can get a referral in you can
meet a real person on the team that
carries a lot of weight even especially
remotely so I think for remote folks it
really comes down to the networking
you're weigh-in
uh what do people you know what if you
know people in companies that are next
to CEOs
um
can you meet them in person and they say
they can help you do you need all you
need to do is like resume I don't really
understand that question
uh what are good questions to ask when
they ask do you have questions for us on
the bank you can do exclamation point uh
the bank and in the bank there are
questions to ask your interviewer it
even links to a GitHub repo called
reverse interview questions uh that has
a bunch more that you can ask during
your interviews
uh what's your strategy against
companies who staff recommend you
contribute to the repo to be considered
uh [__] off
uh
uh versal for the 100 project it can be
like the front end if you want it to be
most people are hosting their full stack
projects on either Railway render or
sicklish right now sicklish right now
those are kind of like the big three
um
I got a recruiter call that called me
offered me an interview they just went
to view a project in the interview
that's it the tech stack is not myrn uh
with the 100 project be good yeah do the
app that you're most comfortable with
that you sunk 100 hours into if you want
to take the weekend to add a little bit
that's closer to their stack that's a
good idea like I built this app mainly
in node but I added this piece that was
in Python because that's what y'all use
at the company
can I expect 30 an hour of Parts
unemployment it depends we had somebody
that had a full-time offer the part-time
hours that was wild
would it be life warning pie torch while
going through 100 devs absolutely not
have you ever decided on an alternative
I haven't given my official
recommendation but it's going to come
down to railway render or cyclist it's
it when everyone works for you the best
folks are having good good experiences
with all three of those I'm just trying
to pick one that I can use for the
future and hopefully get a deal or two
in place for y'all but those are the big
three that it's coming down to
cool
any word on 100 maintainers we're going
to talk about that on uh Tuesday so
Tuesday is our official last class lots
of thank yous and we're going to talk
about the future of 100 devs and how you
can help if you want to help
all right we're at the top of the hour
so when we come back we're gonna start
talking about what you need to do when
you start interviewing so everything
that we just talked about
is getting you to interview how do you
get through your interviews what do you
need to do to play the game well how do
you SL 360 slam dunk your interviews
leave them jaws of gape ready to hire a
realistic time frame on getting asking
for a coffee chat to getting an offer
it's different for every company some
companies
some companies you'll you'll talk them
on a Monday they got an offer for you
Friday some people you'll talk to them
on a on a Monday and three months later
you're finally finishing up the process
it really does depend on the company and
every company is completely different
hmm
all right so now you got interviews
coming in you're either networking your
way in or your LinkedIn is popping and
recruiters are reaching out to you uh
next is what I like to call how you play
the game all of this stuff is how I
think you can play the game it's up to
you to determine how you want to play it
a lot of nerds get really mad with the
stuff I share in this class about like
how dare you tell them to put 100 devs
on their resume or there are some other
weird stuff that they're just trying to
gate keep their four-year degree in the
hundreds of thousand dollars that they
spent for no damn apparent reason
because you get a better job than them
after a boot camp experience right and
so all this I like to say
is how to play the game uh but it's
always up to you to figure out how you
want to play and the things that you
want to do right the things that you
want to do
to play that game it's all about the
doors that you feel comfortable opening
cool
I think the most important thing
after your Hit List is the bank if you
did nothing but hit list
right if you did nothing but hit list
and study the bank you could get a job
if you've come to any of the T spills
95 of them got the job by answering
questions that were on the bank it's
kind of freakishly Works
um it's one of the best things I ever
introduced to my students the bank has
gotten more jobs than learning anything
else
literally I could probably take someone
that doesn't know how to code help them
with all the stuff we talked about
tonight have them Network and learn the
bank and I'm pretty sure I could get
them a job
like they don't know how to code it all
I'm pretty sure I could get them a job
the bank gets jobs so you can do
exclamation point bank here in the
um
in the chat that'll give you the link
the bank just has a bunch of questions
right the bank just has a bunch of
questions
honey a glad to see you name change okay
I see you thank you for the tier three
21 months at tier three that's wild
thank you so much hope you're doing well
all right so the bank has a list of
Behavioral questions a bunch of
technical questions
and even has
um some like harder like CS Theory stuff
you should probably put into your
repertoire and then the questions that
you could ask your interviewer
um that come from this reverse interview
list and most of these questions come
from these resources here right it's
just kind of combining all the questions
into one file
um but if you were to go through and
answer all of these questions you will
be prepared for a significant right
significant portion of your interviews
um
realistically your day should be spent
hit listing and banking we call banking
we put all these questions into our Inky
so if you're new around here we like to
use a tool called Anki that is a spaced
repetition tool space repetition is one
of the best things you can do to learn
and so what it does is like flash cards
with an algorithm so you can take all
these questions put them into your Anki
deck and surface the questions that you
need to see at that given time so you
don't forget stuff
right
and so
please you do anything
do your hit list
all right
and then do your bank
Hit List Bank
all right folks
it was a great stream tonight I really
enjoyed talking to you all I hope you
have a great night
but I really could stop here
I really could stop here hit list and
Bank hit list and Bank hit list and Bank
what should you be doing Leo what should
I be doing right now as I'm going
through the hunt hit list and Bank
all right put that in your Banky and do
it every day now I'm a big fan of
answering all these questions yourself
in your own voice in your own words
getting that active recall in right but
if you don't have time
um we've linked to it on Discord
um but Curtis put together a a kind of
like an open source answer list for all
these questions that could give you a
good start but seriously this if you
come to any of the T spills this is what
has gotten most people jobs not code
Wars not leak code not their technical
ability heck not even their 100 hours
project being able to have high level
conversations with their interviewers
that pretty much come off of this Bank
their behavioral questions most of the
questions are coming off of this Bank
right most of the questions come off of
this bank now this behavioral List have
all the questions no but it gives you
right but it gives you it gives you
enough things to think about so that
when you do have a question that's not
on this list you at least have some
things to use to answer
cool
alrighty
now you'll notice that the bank has
behavioral questions
and those behavioral questions you want
to use a method of responding to them
called car
star I ain't about star I'm about car
star is an extra thing you have to
remember and when you're in the throes
of interviewing remember an extra thing
doesn't work so I'm all about car
s
action result what happened
what action did you take and why are you
the best thing since sliced bread
because of that action that you took
cause action result you should have the
cause action result or car for all 21 of
these questions
right cause
action
result these should be you should be you
should somebody should be able to say
that when I was prepping this you could
say the number and I could answer my
three sentences this was a couple years
ago I could you could you could give me
the question I you give me the number
that's how that's how in this I was
right I don't actually do stuff I
haven't done myself
right I showed you my daily code Wars
right
and so
you could go through these and have a
car a cause action result for each one
right
um
I think I like give me a number somebody
throw a number in chat let's see
y'all went fast
I gotta scroll up
cool I think uh number 14 was the first
one that popped up
what's 14. uh no the 14 doesn't work I
can't tell you about my experience at
100 devs the next one was
oh actually the first one was 12. uh
describe a situation where you worked
effectively Under Pressure uh how did it
feel working under pressure what was
going on and how did you get through
at my last opportunity
someone pushed the production on a
Friday and it broke
we spent the weekend
fixing the problem getting production
back in line and I after that experience
helped the team come up with new
documentation and a new system that made
sure that we never pushed to production
on a Friday ever again so going forward
we never had production break because we
put better systems in place and we never
had to spend the weekend fixing the
problem
car what what happened we pushed
production on Friday something broke
what action did I take we put a better
system in place to never push on Friday
and better systems to make sure that we
don't break production I'm the best
thing ever because we never had that
problem again
I swear this is almost verbatim from the
last time we entered this yes because I
have them [__] memorized you should
too
cause action result that's the point
you know it but your interviewer won't
you'll just be looking chill relaxed
yeah so my last opportunity you know
we uh we push the production on a Friday
right like you it'll come out smooth
right it'll come out smooth because you
have it memorized and you practice it
here's here's the devastating secret
that you won't do
record yourself answering these problems
right record yourself see your quirks
right see what you do that you shouldn't
do in an interview record yourself
talking through these
code up a quick random number generator
as the numbers pop up you you answer
them and then you watch it back what did
you do that was cringy what did you do
that you shouldn't do in the future
right but these having these behavioral
questions car cause action result
lockdown will get you a job
you did nothing else honestly this is
what has gotten people so many jobs it's
kind of ridiculous
uh the next thing is you have a lot of
technical questions the goal with these
technical questions is not
to have a deep understanding it's enough
to say when somebody says hey have you
heard of CSS Sprites you don't go no
right it's just to have enough
understandings that you can have more
technical conversations you can talk
with your interviewer right next
question you can talk with your
interviewer and it comes across as an
engineer has been doing this for years
right for years because you have a deep
knowledge on a lot of stuff that comes
up during interviews so the bank has
what 300 technical questions that I
think are really important for you to go
not 300 but a lot for you to go through
that I think are really important for
you to have a cursory understanding and
that cursor understanding is using a
technique I like to call EU
explanation
use example you should have an
explanation use an example for each of
these questions
right
CSS price are similar to doors well
let's see the CSS uh Sprite ones on the
list explain CSS Sprites right so
if you're ever trying to speed up your
page one of the things you can do to
reduce the number of network requests is
to use a CSS Sprite a CSS Sprite
is a way of putting all of your images
into one image file and then using CSS
or some other tool to move around that
image so only what you care about is in
view so you can go from lots of network
requests to a singular Network request
and a good example of this is Amazon if
you go to Amazon's page they really care
about page load speed they've actually
said that for every one second their
page load speed increases they lose a
million dollars a day so all the logos
the swoops all that stuff is actually
one image file that is a CSS Sprite
explanation what it was use you use it
to speed up your site by making only one
network request instead of a lot and an
example the Amazon example you want to
have EU for each of these questions
explanation use example
and then you add them to your Anki so
you don't forget them this is a metric
crap ton of work
100 hours easily
but it's what gets jobs now you're
starting to see the magic right you're
starting to see uh the magic of this uh
this random person sitting in space with
their cats right
it's not Magic
you're doing [__] that other people
won't do during the job hunt I can
guarantee you those dirty clickers are
not
building out a beautiful portfolio a
manicured GitHub a a perfect LinkedIn I
guarantee you they're not networking
their way oh no that's too spicy even my
computer can't handle it they're they're
not networking their way my computer my
camera just got too hot they're not
networking their way
right they don't want you to know this
they don't want you to know this
information
they literally don't want you to know
this information this is too they they
they're trying to shut me down I'm not
gonna let it happen the clickers will
not get me
it's not gonna happen it's not it can't
they need to know this they're coming
for me I won't be silenced
I won't be silenced
I refuse
they're not building their githubs
they're not networking their way into
applications
they're not spending a hundred hours
building a project
they're not doing hundreds of hours of
Banky when they go into these interviews
like Scrubs
all their
weakness shows
but we're a hundred devs we don't go
into our interviews like an accident we
go in prepared lean mean interviewing
machines we come we eat their lunch we
take their money we take their jobs
they tried to keep me down
they tried to keep me out they said Leon
was given the secrets away
not today
I'm back
can't keep me
off these Airways folks
the clickers came
they got got
all right
refresh refresh tell spam refresh and
chat please
the folks know that they um
indifferent hey love you too brother
all right
next
technical coding challenge you've
you've
you've done your Hit List you've
networked your way in
you've prepared the bank the last thing
you need
is to be prepared for a technical coding
challenge as well
right
okay this is this is live live footage
of my computer uh my computer just gets
gets this like I have like this um sound
dampening
curtain I guess
um but it just makes the room overheat
and then my my camera doesn't like it
all right
so the last part here
people realize that they could redeem
um Channel Point stuff again because the
stream restarted y'all slick
I love it
get yours get in here I love it that's
smart as hell they big brained it they
big brained it you smart
love it
a bunch of people did it
that's smart well done well done
all right
so
we have the prep we've we've done
everything to get the interviews we've
made it through our behavioral
interviews we've gotten to the Nerds
once we get to the Nerds we have to have
a system to get through our technical
interviews and the system I like to
implore is called prep parameters
returns examples pseudo code it's
something that you step through with
every technical challenge that you do
if you want to practice prep we are
doing it every single day
together we have five six hundred people
turning up every single day to practice
through prep uh 6 p.m Eastern time come
through we put the the question in the
hunt Tober daily channel the day before
sometimes the same day if I'm running a
little behind and then we work through
it together and then we ask about a
bunch of questions so definitely come
through if you want to practice prep
um but I want to show quickly uh prep
real quick uh let's just open up
a wraplet this is the problem we worked
on today during class
um let's do a different one let's just
do
let's do
I'm gonna do a node template here also a
word of advice whenever you show up to
an interview always know what you're
going into what type of interview should
I expect is it behavioral is it
technical what questions am I going to
be asked right and if you know they're
gonna be doing a technical challenge
have your replet pulled up or whatever
you feel comfortable with
all right
so let's say the interviewer
gives us
a question that says Hey I want you to
take in a word
and I want you to return whether or not
that word is a palindrome
right
is that word a palindrome and so once
you've given that word one of the things
you might want to do is like oh thank
you for the question do you mind if I
take notes
yes you may take notes okay so you're
asking for you're gonna be giving me a
word and you're going to tell me whether
or not that word is a palindrome all
right so I have a few questions I'm
going to start working through
my prep
the first thing I'm going to work
through is my parameters now don't do
this don't type out p
but don't let them know that you have a
system that you are using right you keep
that in your brain all right you said
I'm taking in a word uh will I always be
taking in a word will there ever be an
instance where you don't give me the
word wonderful now will this word be
only made up of actual letters like well
always only be a string okay it will
only be a string wonderful so I know I'm
taking in a string we know that it will
only ever be letters
and will these letters ever have any
special characters
right will these letters ever have any
special characters will they ever have
any
um
anything that's not a traditional letter
or word we have to worry about spaces or
anything like that no so no no spaces no
special characters no funny business
right no funny business no accents
that's a good one uh do I have to worry
about capitalization can I just assume
that all the words will be lowercase
great so it's regular letters uh all
lower case uh no special characters and
no uh no funny business wonderful now
what I am returning to you is whether or
not it's a palindrome this is the
returns the r in our prep we don't type
R all right I'm going to return to you
a a whether or not it's a palindrome
would you like that as a string saying
yes or no would you like that as a
Boolean as true or false what would you
like me to do to let you know that it is
in is indeed or not a palindrome oh you
want a Boolean to be returned so we're
going to return uh true or false whether
or not it's a palindrome wonderful uh do
you mind if we work through some
examples together I'm just going to set
up a function here
I'm going to call this is palindrome
and uh real quick before we work through
some examples just to make sure we're
both on the same page when you say the
word palindrome you mean a word that a
word that is spelled the same four words
and backwards is that correct right what
you're trying to do is make sure that
you're on the same page don't leave
anything up to guess when you're working
through your parameters and your returns
you want it all on the table make sure
you understand exactly what they're
asking you're taking that time to really
understand the problem really make sure
you know what's coming in make sure
what's going out
cool
all right so I know I'm taking in a word
we're going to put word in here as the
parameter and I was going to go ahead
and set up some test cases here uh so
I'm just going to do a console log
so we can run this down the line and I'm
going to put the is palindrome in here
wonderful and let's do an example I know
that race car
right race car
is a palindrome right it is the same
four words as it is backwards
r-a-c-e-c-a-r-r-a-c-e-c-a-r so race car
is a palindrome wonderful
what I would do here is I would also
want to say that this is true so we
should see true true in the console if
the function that we wrote is palindrome
is a palindrome we should see true true
in the console let's go ahead and do
another example
let's go ahead and do my alleged name
all right Leon Noel that should be true
and then we can do another name
SpongeBob
cool all right so race car should be
true the unwell should be true SpongeBob
should be not be true it should be false
uh interviewer if all of these are
correct would we be satisfied in knowing
that we have solved the problem yes now
we're doing this one to make sure we
understand the problem a lot of times
when I'm doing a technical interview
uh I
don't really know what I'm going to do
until I'm working through the examples
and then the other thing that's really
important is that we exactly we have our
receipts right we have our receipts they
can't change the game on US 30 minutes
into the interview and be like actually
this is what I wanted you to do uh
slow your roll you agreed that if these
all work we solved the problem so not
only is it helping you figure out what
you need to do what is giving you
receipts for later on too unless in case
they try to switch things up the last
thing the last p and prep is our pseudo
code so some things I know that I'm
going to do is I'm taking in the word I
would love to reverse that word but to
reverse that word I know I'm going to
need to use the I'm going to use the
reverse method I don't want to use like
a for Loop or anything like that we have
some methods built into JavaScript that
would make this a little bit easier to
solve but I know reverse is an array
and so I need to take the string and
turn it into an array with split then I
can reverse it and then I need to join
it back together so that I can compare
the reverse to the actual
um word
all right and that result of the reverse
being equal to the other word would be
true or false
cool
wonderful
all right so a lot of folks feel like
a lot of folks feel like this is taking
a lot of time it should take a lot of
time this prep process should take at
least 15 minutes to work through
right
all right should take at least 15
minutes because remember I told you that
when you're talking to the Nerds you're
in a technical interview it cares about
right it cares about
can you code
right can you code
and do I want to work with you for the
next two years
so when you bring up is a two-pointer
approach more efficient you may have
solved the coding part but I don't want
to work with you for the next two years
so you still fail the interview believe
it or not
right and So
eventually you build up to more Optimal
Solutions and if you want
to work up to more Optimal Solutions you
should join our stand-up because every
day we're working towards getting to
more Optimal Solutions but before we
solve it with the methods
your methods
and a Brute Force solution is all you
need
right it's all you need
your brute force and your methods is all
you need to get a job more Optimal
Solutions are for the code weenies the
elite code sources
does it open some more doors yes but out
of the hundreds of jobs that folks are
getting at entry-level roles prep
methods and brute force was pretty much
all they needed could you open up more
doors with more leak code yeah but you
don't need it
cool
let's take a look at this at the end
so we could go ahead and say all right
so uh do you agree that this is on the
right track uh is there anything here
that you see but that might not get me
to my solution okay wonderful so I can
go ahead and split reverse Joy I'm going
to mess up a variable called uh reversed
I'm just going to say rev word just
because we're live and having some fun
ah we'll do it real
reversed word and we're just going to
take in our word we're going to split it
now splitter takes in a separator we're
going to say empty quotes because we
don't want us we don't want to have like
spaces or anything like that we're just
splitting each word then we're going to
reverse it
and we're going to join it back together
beautiful we have to put the the
separator in there as well all right so
now we have this word that has been
turned into an array reversed and then
turned back into a string and all we
have to do now is return
whether or not reversed word equals
word
right this will give us the true or
false that we're looking for so let's go
ahead and run our test cases and see
what we got cooking here
all right we see true true true false
false so it looks like our code is
working bomb does this meet your your
status does it mean does this meet your
satisfaction did we solve the problem to
your your satisfaction here yes we did
wonderful thank you so much Bob for the
interview now before we wrap up I'm
curious Bob is this something that you
would have in your code base on the job
at company X
would you prefer to like leave comments
and have variables or do you lead or do
you kind of like like to have things
maybe like on one line do you use es6
which should This Be an Arrow function
oh it should be so let's go ahead and
and uh
comment this out let's go ahead and do
const is palindrome
or palindrome
I said palindrome not palindrome
gripsies all right is palindrome and
we're gonna go and set this equal we
know we're bringing in a word and we're
going to set this equal and then we can
just kind of use this implicit return
and we can just say
um does word equal
word dot split
reverse
join
all right Bob so this looks like a nice
one liner using all the latest and
greatest es6 syntax we see that still
works true true false false wonderful
now this whole process
should have taken around 30 minutes
maybe more to prep to work through the
whole time you notice I didn't shut up I
kept talking
ideally I'm engaging the interviewer
right we're engaging the interviewer
right we're getting them talking we're
getting them answering the questions
we're getting them saying yes as as
early as possible because we're trying
to win the game where they at the end
like us and say that they they recommend
that we be hired
you have to build a rapport with your
interviewers a lot of times with
questions that are way more difficult
than this you're going to get stuck if
you've been building this Rapport you've
been talking this whole time asking them
questions prep return parameters returns
examples pseudocode you've been talking
through this entire piece they're gonna
give you hints they're going to help you
but if you spent the whole time doing
this
I don't carry the five of them
and then you get stuck they're not going
to help you you might as pack up your
laptop and go home they're not going to
help you and so this idea of prep gives
you time to work through the problem it
gets you communicating with your
interviewer it helps you build that
Rapport so that they will actually help
you it also Burns a lot of time so in
the end you could say you know what I'm
sorry so much I have an interview
immediately following this I feel like
we can get maybe a slightly more optimal
solution to this problem maybe not this
one but in real life I feel like we can
get to a more optimal solution if we had
more time I might use this type of
pattern uh do you mind if I follow by
email just with the optimal solution
later today right then as soon as they
say yeah you go home you immediately
Google how to do the more optimal
solution you send them the more optimal
solution via the email thanking them for
their time tell them that you had a
wonderful experience interviewing them
you provide some value that came picked
up you you saw that they had a Pokemon
on their desk you say I hope you're
excited for scarlet and violet that
comes out on the 18th right you throw
that into the thank you you send the
optimal solution right and you get the
job
so this is a process that you should be
doing for every single interview every
single time you do a coding challenge
you should be prepping parameters
returns examples pseudo code parameters
returns examples pseudocode you do a
code Wars parameters returns examples
you delete good problems return the
simple pseudocode you do the hunt Tober
daily stand-up parameters returns
examples pseudocode so by the time that
you are on the job Sorry by the time
you're in the interview
right by the time you're in the
interview
it comes out like butter
what did they say actually I'm not too
busy I have time sorry I actually have
another interview with another company
right now uh I really appreciate the
time you gave me today I will definitely
follow up by email though have a great
rest of your day
there's a game to be played folks it's
up to you if you want to play it
I scratched them onto zeros on the hard
disk with the needle myself oh yeah
oh I like that atrocity I don't be
disrespectful with the other company I
have an interview with
cool
if you you prep
you know your method's cold we've been
spending like a past week or two just
making sure we knew all of our methods
uh today we saw sorting methods we saw
Char code app methods we tried to see
slice methods but we ran out of time
um we
have seen
split reverse we've seen all these
methods that I've asked you to practice
and we're seeing them live and stand up
so if you need to practice what your
methods come to stand up we're getting
that practice in but if you know how to
prep you know your methods you know how
to brute force a solution which is like
the non-optimal solution
that's all you need
that's it you get a job you can stop
right there you don't need to know how
to do the Optimal Solutions to lead
codes
Etc does it help yes does it open more
doors yes but it sprinkles
it sprinkles
it sprinkles on top of your interviewing
Sunday
don't listen to me I'm just a random guy
on the internet drinking some tea
how about Sean on Discord they wrote
this there was no technical assessment
I just told them about the projects I
had worked on and made sure I was
friendly remember number two and
connected with them as people I know
there are lots of people here that are
better coders than me so it's absolutely
possible you can do this Don't Stop
Believing stay consistent it will happen
winners win losers lose
stay consistent find a way to win
no technical assessment amazing job
Erica
the nerves got to them
right the nerves got to them I was going
to cancel the interview but my friend
convinced me in the last minute
they now work part-time but get paid
full time
part-time work for full-time pay the
nerves almost stopped them from going to
an interview you know enough you are
ready
Daddy Yankee
build the button
with HTML and CSS
and got an 83k job that's now they've
gotten a raise and it's even worth even
more now
a [__] button
and if you go in our celebrations
Channel you will see that this is not a
fluke this is not something that they
got lucky with you will see 50 plus
examples of folks that got amazing jobs
without technical coding challenges
hey Rose oh that's cool
hope they're doing well
a [__]
fighting
you can code a button
all right so just do it
just do it
so just do it make your dreams come true
just
do it
maybe Shia LaBeouf will convince you to
do it you're ready you're ready you
don't need anything else
but if you want some sprinkles
you want some sprinkles
I got some sprinkles for you folks
that's the day of structures and
algorithms
we did a very simple inter a very simple
introduction
right a very simple introduction
and that's really all you need
when you start talking about
optimizations that you would make
that's all it is you might not be coming
up with these really Optimal Solutions
in your in your
in your interviews but if you play your
prep right you manage your time well you
can at least talk through why something
might not be optimal and strategies you
might take to make it more optimal
without having to actually solve the
optimal solution now if you're applying
to if you're one of those people that
like want to work at Fang or something
look uh those folks this they they need
all the sprinkles they need the
sprinkles they need the whipped cream
they need the Cherry but for most of the
jobs that we're going for these
sprinkles are meaningless knowing the
optimizations knowing how to evaluate
your code
in terms of space and time is enough we
have a full class on this so you can go
back actually two classes
right you can go back to those two
classes and see all of this in detail
but very quickly
right very quickly
uh when we talk about data structures
and algorithms I think it's just the
last thing you need the last sprinkle
you need if you want to interview well
right the last thing you need if you
want to interview well and that last
thing is to understand what data
structure algorithms are an algorithm is
just the steps you take to solve a
problem
all right oh no my little one's not
doing too well I'll be right back one
second we're back
God family academics always
always
um
it's close to little one's bedtime
and I think they're trying to hit it a
little early
all right
so these are sprinkles
right the sprinkles that we're putting
on our interview
Sunday
[Laughter]
right our interview Sunday and so let's
just run through these quickly but know
that we have two classes on all of this
right
algorithms I already hear somebody talk
about algorithms it's just the steps you
take to solve a problem
and it's helpful to know
how to evaluate the efficiency of those
steps that you are taking and we say the
efficiency we care about two things
space and time
how much time theoretically are we
taking and how much space theoretically
are we taking up in memory
and space being how much memory is used
time how many operations are executed
per input now when I say about time I
don't really mean like the actual amount
of seconds something takes we're talking
about rough estimates right rough
estimates when I'm evaluating time of an
algorithm or the steps I took to solve a
problem why do I care about rough
estimates and not about like the actual
numbers or the number of seconds it took
for my code or the solution that I've
written uh to run
a recipe is an algorithm exactly thank
you indifferent this is the steps you
took to solve the problem
because it differs exactly the code that
runs on my Beast of a PC that's
overheating my room will probably run my
function faster than my Chromebook
right so I don't care about the actual
second something takes I take about I
talk about the rough theoretical
overview so how many operations are
executed per input is what I really
really care about
and we have a way of talking about this
rough estimate and what we use to talk
about this rough estimate is something
called Big O notation uh Big O notation
like why do we use it it's just a way of
mathematically describing how complex an
algorithm or the steps you took to solve
a problem is in terms of that time and
space
but why why do we use Big O why do we
use this mathematical notation well it's
like I said the environment in which we
run our code whether it's a beast of a
PC or Chromebook would actually make
certain code run faster or slower we
don't care about that when we're trying
to evaluate the steps that our algorithm
taking we're trying to get a rough
estimate of how many operations per
input we are taking it's theoretical not
exact
cool so some common complexities you're
going to run into
you're going to see
our constant time our logarithmic our
linear and our quadratic or ones you
typically start off with
constant time means that for any number
of inputs there will only ever be one
operation
right no matter how many inputs there
are there will only ever be one
operation we can see this one accessing
an element out of an array
right so if I want the first element out
of this array no matter how many inputs
I have in my array accessing an element
out of that input will happen in
constant time no matter how many more
values I add to my array it will always
just be one operation
right
now
the
inputs if we had an equal number of
inputs and an equal number of operations
right so for each input we also have one
operation we would call that linear or o
of n
and an example of a linear complexity is
when we Loop through that array
right so here we're going to Loop
through and sum all the numbers that are
inside of this array so for this for
Loop to run we're going to take each
number and add it to our sum so for each
input there is one operation
right so this for Loop would run
grabbing one adding it to some to adding
it to some three adding it to some or
adding to some five adding it to some
so for each input
there was an equal operation
all right now the thing that blew my
mind
the thing that absolutely blew my mind
is this gauss's sum this should be an a
here was this gauss's sum
with gauss's sum
I was able to sum an array
just by taking the last value
so here I'm grabbing the last element
out of my array and I'm doing this fancy
right
right it will do this fancy math trick
right we do this fancy math trick right
we do this fancy math trick and we do
this fancy math trick we get the sum
so if you ever have a continuous array
of numbers meaning that they go from one
to the number they don't skip anything
they're in order
right
you can go ahead and just grab the last
number so no matter how many inputs
you're doing one operation and you get
the sum you don't need to Loop through
right you don't need to Loop through you
can do one operation and get the sum
that turns something that was a linear
complexity into something that is
constant time this is why people study
data structures in algorithms there will
be problems that come up often in
computer science and in engineering that
if you know the tricks you can do it way
more efficiently imagine we had a
million numbers we'd have to Loop
through each number to get the sum but
if you knew this trick
you do one operation no Loop and you get
the same value
right
that is the power of data structure
algorithms and that's why people study
them do they come up in a normal
Engineers day-to-day no
maybe depending on what you're working
on but when it does show up oh boy
oh boy
right oh boy does it does it pop off and
so what we're doing during the daily
stand-ups right we're doing during the
daily stand-ups is is slowly exposing
you to the really common data structures
and the Really common algorithms that
might show up in your interview but none
of this is necessary this is all
sprinkles on top if you know your prep
you know how your methods like your
JavaScript methods your your sorts your
Maps your reduces your filters and you
know how to Brute Force just like using
regular functions Loops right that's
good enough learning this stuff puts you
over the edge so I share it so far two
resources
the scotch io's introduction to
algorithms and then a free front-end
Masters course on introductions to
algorithms you do those two courses you
know enough to blaze through your
interviews at most companies that's like
taking it to the next level putting all
those sprinkles on top
right so that's kind of the idea why
these things are important uh there's
two more quadratic uh when you see like
a loop inside of a loop for each input
you're also doing an operation as you
add more inputs you're doing X well not
exponentially but close to exponentially
more operations that would be quadratic
we have something called logarithmic
where we have special algorithms we can
break our inputs in half throw away the
ones we don't care about and it's a
little bit faster and then we have a
whole class on this right so if you know
that you want to add the sprinkles on
top go check out our past VOD
um our past class on data structures and
algorithms it'll cover all this stuff in
detail if you're watching this on how to
interview definitely go back and watch
that class this is just trying to give
you a little taste as to why it might be
important